I would first like to read to you
some passages from the Bible
found at Ephesians chapter 3,
verses 14 through 19.
This will also establish the theme
for my comments this month.
Ephesians 3,
starting with verse 14, Paul said:
“For this reason
I bend my knees to the Father,
“to whom every family in heaven
and on earth owes its name.
“I pray that he may grant you
through the abundance of his glory
“to be made mighty
in the man you are inside,
“with power through his spirit,
“and that through your faith you may have
the Christ dwell in your hearts with love.
“May you be rooted
and established on the foundation,
“in order that with all the holy ones
you may be thoroughly able
“to comprehend fully
what is the breadth
“and length
and height and depth,
“and to know the love of the Christ,
which surpasses knowledge,
“so that you may be filled
with all the fullness
that God gives.”
Now, verse 15
is the inspiration
for my theme, namely,
“Glorify Jehovah—The One
to Whom Every Family Owes Its Name.”
The family unit is under a vicious attack
in these last days.
The Insight book
lived up to its name
under the heading “Family.”
The very insightful comment
reads this way:
“The inspired Scriptures
have foretold a vicious attack
“on the family institution
with a consequent breaking down of morality
and of human society
outside the . . . congregation.”
The article pointed out
that in “‘the last days’
“a condition in which
disobedience to parents,
“disloyalty, and absence
of ‘natural affection’ would be rife,
even among those
‘having a form of godly devotion.’”
How can married couples,
parents, and children
counteract
such a diabolical attack?
Do you remember those verses
we read in Ephesians chapter 3?
Verse 16 said that the One
to whom every family owes its name,
Jehovah, would ‘grant us
to be made mighty
in the person we are inside.’
Yes, Jehovah can give us
the internal
spiritual strength to fight back
against Satan’s efforts
to destroy the family.
How?
By being immersed in God’s Word.
In particular,
by imitating the loving way
that Jesus treated his disciples.
Did you note
that Ephesians 3:17 said
we are to “have the Christ
dwell in [our] hearts with love”?
Yes, if each of us cherishes
the Christ in our hearts
to the point that he dwells,
or resides, there constantly,
our family
will not only survive
but it will truly thrive.
This will be so evident
that verse 17 further states
that we will “be rooted
and established on the foundation.”
We will be solid!
And keep in mind
that 1 Corinthians 3:11 says
that the “foundation”
on which we build
“is Jesus Christ.”
Then verse 18
of Ephesians chapter 3 indicates that
our spiritual peripheral vision
will be enhanced.
We will not
have spiritual blind spots
that could allow the spirit of the world
to creep into the family.
That verse says
that we will “be thoroughly able
“to comprehend fully
what is the breadth
and length
and height and depth.”
All aspects of Jesus’ personality
will come into play
as we interact
with family members.
Finally, verse 19
sums up the result when it says
that we would then
have come “to know the love of the Christ,
which surpasses knowledge.”
Granted,
knowledge is important,
but it is the application
of Christlike love
that will preserve our family,
keeping it vibrantly intact.
Family life
in these critical last days
could be likened to those
who suffer from diabetes.
It is believed
that diabetes is caused
by both genetic
and environmental factors.
Similarly, all in the family
have inherited sin
and imperfection
from our first human parents,
Adam and Eve,
as if genetically.
However, we are also exposed
to the ever more toxic
environmental factors
of Satan’s evil world.
Most who suffer
from a serious case of diabetes
need to use two methods
to successfully relieve the symptoms
and lead a normal life.
They have to watch their diet
and, in many cases,
take an injection
of insulin daily.
Spiritually,
we need to avoid the sickly,
sweet junk food
that the world promotes in movies,
talk shows,
the Internet, and in print.
Just as with the person
who has diabetes,
this requires
a permanent lifestyle change
from what we might have
exposed ourselves to in the past.
In addition to avoiding
unwholesome junk food
from Satan’s system,
we also need
to take daily “injections”
of God’s Word
and other wholesome provisions.
This has become more
and more important
the deeper we get
into these last days.
How has our organization provided this
when it comes to family life?
Well, in the early 1900’s,
the focus was on preaching
the good news.
Little attention was given
to building strong
Christian marriages and families.
For a time,
marriage was even discouraged
well beyond
the intent of the Scriptures.
I did some checking,
and commendably
between 1919 and 1921
there was a feature
in the Golden Age magazine
once or twice a month
called the “Juvenile Bible Study.”
In 1920,
a brochure was released
called The Golden Age ABC.
Then it wasn’t until 1941
that the now famous book
entitled Children was handed out
to all young ones
at the convention that year.
But as the last days progressed,
more and more information
for families was produced.
For example, in the 1970’s,
the book Making Your Family Life Happy
was released.
About the same time,
the books Listening to the Great Teacher
and Your Youth—Getting the Best out of It
were published.
In 1982, Awake!
began a regular series
that has run for decades
entitled “Young People Ask.”
We now have two up-to-date books
with the same title,
and the series of articles
continues on the jw.org website.
We have the book
Learn From the Great Teacher
and so many features
and activities for young ones
on the website that I would be out of time
if I tried to enumerate them all.
There are also regular articles
in our magazines
about marriage
and family life.
And I will certainly never forget
the privilege I had in 2012
to introduce the animated series
Become Jehovah’s Friend.
That has proved
to be a blessing
for both young ones
and their parents.
What a teaching tool for both!
In 2014, I attended
the international convention
in Atlanta, Georgia,
here in the United States.
After a little two-year-old girl
saw my face
on the big jumbo screen
giving a talk,
she eagerly started searching
all around her for someone.
When her parents asked her
who she was looking for, she said, “Caleb.
He must be here because I saw
his grandfather giving a talk.”
Many children ask
to meet Caleb in person
when they visit Bethel.
Two postings
of an item every month
is making quite an impression
on little hearts.
With Bible principles
being impressed on the minds and hearts
of children so early,
we prayerfully anticipate
many spiritually-minded teenagers
in the years to come.
We have so much
healthy spiritual food
for counteracting
family “diabetes.”
For this,
we give all glory to Jehovah,
the one “to whom
every family . . . owes its name.”
One of the favorite passages
of Scripture that anyone
professing to be Christian
loves is the 23rd Psalm.
Family heads, can we benefit
from imitating not only
the Fine Shepherd, Jesus,
but also the Great Shepherd,
Jehovah God?
I am going to borrow
the text of the 23rd Psalm
and adjust the words so that we
can sense a family’s tranquillity
when headship
is exercised properly.
In fact, you husbands,
as the script is read,
imagine it is your wife’s voice
describing the effect
your headship has on your family.
‘[My husband]
is [our] shepherd.
‘[We] will lack nothing.
‘In grassy pastures
[refreshing recreation]
‘he makes [us] lie down;
he leads [us]
‘to well-watered resting-places
[meetings and conventions].
‘He refreshes [us].
‘He leads [us in the ministry]
‘in the paths of righteousness
for the sake of [Jehovah’s] name.
‘Though [we] walk in the valley
of deep [economic] shadow,
‘[we] fear no harm,
for [Dad is] with [us];
‘your rod and your staff
[loving discipline] reassure [us].
‘You prepare a table [of family worship,
helping the children]
‘for [us] before [our] enemies.
‘You refresh
[our] head[s] with oil;
‘[Our] cup
[of family well-being] is well-filled.
‘Surely goodness and loyal love
will pursue [our family]
‘all the days of [our] life,
and [our family]
will dwell in the house
of Jehovah for all [our] days.’
No further application called for.
We feel the sense of security
that envelops
the interior rooms
of such a home, don’t we?
Do you remember
the point made
in Ephesians chapter 3,
which we read earlier?
We are to treasure
Jesus’ personality
and let it “dwell”
in our hearts.
If all in the family
make a determined effort
to treat each other
like Jesus would,
we can conquer the world!
Yes, we—His spiritual family
in heaven
and all humans on earth
who dedicate their lives to Him
—give glory to Jehovah!
Indeed, we thank Jehovah
for all the spiritual provisions
he has made through his Word
and organization to protect every family
who takes up his name.
May Jehovah bless
all of you families
as you strive to win
the war that Satan wages
against you
in these last days.